---
label: Cat. 2
title: Pea Pickers, Nipomo, California
short_title: Pea Pickers
type: entry
weight: 102
object:
  - id: 2
---

silk poems began as a six-year research project developed with expertise from more than thirty international textile archives, medical libraries, nanotechnology and biomedical labs, and sericulture sites.
Jen Bervin first visited the Bioengineering Department at Tufts in 2010, where David Kaplan and Fiorenzo Omenetto were working on a new form of silk—reverse- engineered liquefied silk. Among the research outputs has been a silk biosensor etched nanoscale on clear silk film that can be implanted in the body to provide diagnostic readings.
In 2016, Bervin worked with Tufts’ scientists on fabricating her poetry at nanoscale. In this process, a mask is used to etch the poem in gold spatter onto a silicon wafer, and then liquid silk is poured over the wafer. As the silk dries, the letters remain suspended in the film. The etched version of this poem can be viewed at the exhibition’s microscope station.
Nanoscale science is concerned with physical interactions at extremely small dimensions— one nanometer is equal to one-billionth
of a meter. A strand of human DNA is 2.5 nanometers in diameter, while a sheet of paper is nearly 75,000 nanometers thick. Nanostructures can be made by reacting chemicals in liquids or gasses, or by etching with electrons. In nature, the iridescent colors of some butterfly wings contain nanostructures that affect light waves.


> The house was dead, and the fields were dead; but this truck was the active thing, the living principle. The ancient Hudson, with bent and scarred radiator screen,…this was the new hearth, the living center of the family.

{{< q-class "backmatter" >}}

## Exhibitions

*The Public Record: Photographs of the Great Depression from the J. Paul Getty Museum*, Pomona College Museum of Art (Claremont), March 10–May 19, 2002; *About Life: The Photographs of Dorothea Lange*, the J. Paul Getty Museum at the Getty Center (Los Angeles), October 15, 2002–February 9, 2003; *Engaged Observers: Documentary Photography since the Sixties*, the J. Paul Getty Museum at the Getty Center (Los Angeles), June 29–November 14, 2010.

## Bibliography

Keller, Judith. *In Focus: Dorothea Lange. Photographs from the J. Paul Getty Museum*. (Los Angeles: J. Paul Getty Museum, 2002), p.27.

{{< /q-class >}}
